docs: :memo: add decision post on using SemVer (#61)
seedcase-project/decisions: why-semver.qmd

systems:

-   [Semantic Versioning (SemVer)](https://semver.org/)
-   [Calendar Versioning (CalVer)](https://calver.org/)

### SemVer

SemVar is a versioning system that uses a three-part version number:
`MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. This system is widely used in the software industry
and is well understood by developers. For instance, with a bug fix,
`PATCH` is incremented by 1, going from `0.0.0` to `0.0.1`. For `MINOR`,
you increment by 1 when there is a new feature, so from `0.0.1` to
`0.1.0`. For `MAJOR`, you increment by 1 when there is a breaking
change, so from `0.1.0` to `1.0.0`.

::: columns
::: column
#### Benefits

-   This is the most widely used versioning system in the software
    industry, so is very familiar to people.
-   It is very clear what has changed between versions, so it conveys
    information about changes well.
-   Has a large number of tools and packages that support it, combine
    well with it, or integrate well into development workflows around
    it. For instance, there are tools that can automatically generate
    changelogs based on the commit messages in a repository, that can
    automatically increment the version number based on the changes

>     made, or that

Author: I knew I hadn't finished some sentence, but couldn't for the life of me find it when I was looking through the text again hahaha

:::

::: column
#### Drawbacks

-   It can be very difficult to determine when something is a major,
    minor, or patch change. Sometimes it is perfectly clear, but often,
    a change is hard to place in these three categories.
-   It can be difficult to determine what constitutes a breaking change.
-   More difficult (but not impossible) to automate, since it can
    involve a large amount of human judgement.
:::
:::

### CalVer

CalVer is a system that is based on dates. Unlike SemVer, there are more
variations available to use, for instance, `YYYY.MM` or `YY.MM`. Also
unlike SemVer, there are more often variations that combine features of
SemVer and CalVer, such as `YYYY.MINOR.PATCH`.

::: columns
::: column
#### Benefits

-   Very easy to use and understand, as it is based on dates. Whatever

>     date the software is released on, is the version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    date the software is released on is the version number.
```

-   Works very well for some software projects, especially those with
    very regular releases. For instance, the most popular Linux
    distribution, Ubuntu, uses a form of CalVer, that increment every 6
    months.
:::

::: column
#### Drawbacks

-   It doesn't contain any information on what was changed between
    versions.
-   Breaking changes are not communicated in the version number.
-   There are substantially fewer tools and packages to help automate
    release and development workflows compared to SemVer.
-   Doesn't work as well for some software projects, especially those
    that are not released on a regular basis.
:::
:::

## Decision outcome

::: content-hidden
What decision was made, use the form "We decided on CHOICE because of
REASONS."
:::

We decided to use Semantic Versioning (SemVar) for versioning our

> software. While it is more difficult to implement and decide on which
> version to increment based on the changes made, because it is so widely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
software. While it can be more difficult to implement as it may require some human judgement to decide on which
version to increment based on the changes made, because it is so widely
```
Is it more difficult to implement in general or bc you need to decide which part of the version number to bump?

Author: Difficult because it can be tricky to know whether a new internal function is classified as a "feat" but that is never exposed to the user, though the user might see some performance improvements. Does that warrant an minor update, a patch update? If you strictly go with what SemVer says about minor, it wouldn't fall under an increment, but so what does it fall under? Nothing?

used, the availability of tools that support it or exclusively depend on
it is very large. It will ultimately make it easier for us during

> development because we can make use of those existing tools to handle

Reviewer: Mention which existing tools your'e thinking of here? Conventional commits, for example?

tasks like version release and changelog generation for us.

### Consequences

::: content-hidden
List some potential consequences of this decision.
:::

> -   One of the biggest consequences of using SemVer is that it does take
>     a bit of effort to implement the tools that will eventually automate
>     many of our tasks for us.
> -   There will also be some variation in how individual team members and
>     contributors label changes, since there is some level of human
>     judgement on categorising changes into the correct version number.
>     There will be some learning within the team based on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the biggest consequences of using SemVer is that it does take
a bit of effort to implement the tools that will eventually automate
many of our tasks for us. 

There will also be some variation in how individual team members and
contributors label changes, since there is some level of human
judgement on categorising changes into the correct version number.
This will involve some learning for the team.
```
Removed bullet points and rewrote the last sentence :)
